---
title: "Diesel 0.11.0"
slug: "diesel-0-11-0"
date: 2017-02-16T21:19:59Z
tag: "v0.11.0"

htmlUrl: "https://github.com/diesel-rs/diesel/releases/tag/v0.11.0"
---

The headline features for this release are MySQL support and limited PG upsert support. MySQL support works exactly as you'd expect. Just add `features = ["mysql"]` to your Cargo.toml, pass a connection URL (where the scheme is `mysql://` and the path is the name of the database) to `MysqlConnection::establish` and you're off. Keep in mind that if you're following the getting started guide, MySQL does not support the `RETURNING` clause, so methods like `get_result` and `get_results` won't work.

PostgreSQL upsert was a feature added in PG 9.5 and has been one of our most requested features. The full upsert API is quite complex, but we've added support for `ON CONFLICT DO NOTHING`, as this covered the highest percentage of use cases with the lowest amount of work. You can see examples in [the docs](http://docs.diesel.rs/diesel/pg/upsert/trait.OnConflictExtension.html#method.on_conflict_do_nothing). Support for the full upsert syntax will be coming in 0.12

In addition to the headline features, there were plenty of quality of life improvements and bug fixes. As always, you can see a full list of changes by reading [the changelog](https://github.com/diesel-rs/diesel/blob/v0.11.0/CHANGELOG.md).

In addition to the Diesel core team, 6 additional contributors worked on this release. A huge thank you to:
- Brandon W Maister
- Eijebong
- Georg Semmler
- Jimmy Cuadra
- Jovansonlee Cesar
- jacob

I'd also like to thank everybody who helped this release by opening issues, finding bugs, and asking/answering questions in our gitter room.
