---
title: "Diesel 1.1.0"
slug: "diesel-1-1-0"
date: 2018-01-15T15:58:56Z
tag: "v1.1.0"

htmlUrl: "https://github.com/diesel-rs/diesel/releases/tag/v1.1.0"
---

Improved Support for Adding New Types
-------------------------------------

The primary focus of this release was improving the ergonomics of adding support for new types in Diesel.

For implementing new SQL types, we've added `#[derive(SqlType)]` which implements many traits that you need to implement for every SQL type.  See the documentation for `HasSqlType` for details on this derive.

For implementing new mappings, we've added `#[derive(FromSqlRow)]` and `#[derive(AsExpression)]`. These derives will replace the majority of the boilerplate that was previously required when supporting new types.  Adding support for new types in Diesel 1.1 should only require implementing `FromSql` and `ToSql`. The derives will handle the rest.

We've also provided `FromSql` impls for `*const str` and `*const [u8]`.  Due to the design of `FromSql`, we can't provide impls for `&str` and `&[u8]` without a breaking change. However many impls just need to parse a string or some bytes, and don't need the allocation that would come from `String` or `Vec<u8>`. This will require unsafe code to use, but should make certain implementations more efficient.

Finally, we've restructured how our serialize/deserialize modules are structured, and provided type aliases to make implementations of `FromSql` and `ToSql` more consise.

`r2d2_diesel` is Now Part of Diesel
-----------------------------------

Finally, this release merges `r2d2_diesel` into Diesel itself. The main benefit of doing this is that we can implement `Connection` for `PooledConnection`, removing the need for explicit `&*` when using r2d2.  This should also help to prevent version mismatches when changing Diesel versions.

To use the new r2d2 support, remove `r2d2` and `r2d2_diesel` from your Cargo.toml. Add the `r2d2` to your enabled features on `diesel`. Replace `extern crate r2d2` with `pub use diesel::r2d2`. Replace any `r2d2_diesel::` with `diesel::r2d2::`.

Thanks
------

In addition to the headline features, there were dozens of smaller additions which should make using Diesel even better! As always, you can check the CHANGELOG for a full list of changes in this release.

In addition to the Diesel core team, 8 people contributed to this release. A huge thank you to:

- Ashe Connor
- Chris Pick
- Evan
- Georg Semmler
- MarcManiez
- Martin Lindhe
- Oliver Schneider
- Ryan Blecher
