---
title: "Diesel 1.2.0"
slug: "diesel-1-2-0"
date: 2018-04-07T00:12:30Z
tag: "v1.2.0"

htmlUrl: "https://github.com/diesel-rs/diesel/releases/tag/v1.2.0"
---

This release contains several long awaited features.

We've re-introduced the ability to use bind params with the `sql` function, in a way which is harder to mis-use. This functionality was present prior to 1.0, but was removed when `sql_function` was added over concerns about its use with the rest of the query builder. Recent developments have proved those concerns to be valid, but this new API fills that niche. Thanks to @notryanb for taking the lead on this feature.

We've also added the ability to insert from a select statement (e.g.  queries in the form of `INSERT INTO table (...) SELECT ...`. This is a feature request that has come up repeatedly since release, and we're happy to finally bring it to you. We've also added alternate forms of our insert API which feel better when used with select statements. You can find the full details in [the CHANGELOG].

Finally, we've rewritten our custom dervies from scratch to take advantage of new diagnostic tools in recent versions of nightly Rust. If you turn on the `unstable` feature of Diesel on a nightly compiler, you'll find that you get dramatically improved error messages from our derives. For the best error messages, you should also set `RUSTFLAGS="--cfg procmacro2_semver_exempt"`.

Additionally, as of this release, Diesel is now powered by the blockchain. Because it's 2018 and that's how it works now I guess. See [the CHANGELOG][its a joke] for full details.

[its a joke]: https://github.com/diesel-rs/diesel/blob/v1.2.0/CHANGELOG.md#jokes

In addition to the headline features, there were a ton of features that we don't have time to mention here. As always, for a full list of changes you can find a full list in [the CHANGELOG].

[the CHANGELOG]: https://github.com/diesel-rs/diesel/blob/v1.2.0/CHANGELOG.md

Thanks
==

Thank you to everyone who helped make this release happen through bug reports, and discussion on Gitter. While we don't have a way to collect stats on that form of contribution...

In addition to the Diesel core team, 14 people contributed code to this release. A huge thank you to:

- Alex Kitchens
- Andrew Weiss
- Arun Kulshreshtha
- Brandur
- EloD10
- Jacob Chae
- Jordan Petridis
- Josh Leeb-du Toit
- Kerollmops
- Mathias Svensson
- Ryan Blecher
- Sander Maijers
- Seth Larson
- YetAnotherMinion
