---
title: "Diesel 2.0.0-rc0"
slug: "diesel-2-0-0-rc0"
date: 2022-04-22T15:12:24Z
tag: "v2.0.0-rc0"

htmlUrl: "https://github.com/diesel-rs/diesel/releases/tag/v2.0.0-rc0"
---

# Diesel 2.0.0-rc.0
This release marks the first release candidate for the upcoming Diesel 2.0 Release.

Diesel 2.0.0 contains the contributions of more than 130 people. More than 1700 commits were submitted
over a span of 3 years.

As part of this release we introduced numerous new features and rewrote large parts of the internal structure.
Check out our [changelog for a complete list of changes](https://github.com/Diesel-rs/Diesel/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md). As this is a new major Diesel release it contains a number of breaking changes. Checkout our [draft migration guide](https://github.com/Diesel-rs/Diesel/blob/master/guide_drafts/migration_guide.md) for details about how to handle those breaking changes.

This release contains the following parts:

* diesel 2.0.0-rc.0
* diesel_derives 2.0.0-rc.0
* diesel_migrations 2.0.0-rc.0
* diesel_cli 2.0.0-rc.0
* diesel_dynamic_schema 0.2.0-rc.0

This release marks a first prerelease of the upcoming Diesel 2.0 release. We ask you for your help to finalise the release.
Checkout the "Timeline for a Diesel 2.0 release" section for details about how you can help us finishing the release.

## Features

As a highlight Diesel 2.0.0 adds support for the following features:

* Fully type checked `GROUP BY` support
* Support for table aliasing
* Support for defining select clauses via a corresponding type
* Support for `UNION`/`INTERSECT` queries

### Support for `GROUP BY` clauses

Diesel 2.0 adds support for `GROUP BY` clauses for select queries.

This means queries like the following one will just work.

```rust
 users::table.inner_join(posts::table)
    .group_by(users::id)
    .select((users::name, count(posts::id)))
```

As this is the case for all other Diesel built-in query dsl, this construct is fully checked at compile time. This means Diesel
will ensure that the `GROUP BY` clause is valid for the current query and it will also ensure that expressions appearing inside
of your `SELECT` clause will match the aggregation rules provided by the current `GROUP BY` clause.

### Support for table aliasing

Diesel 2.0 adds support for table aliasing. This enables users to write queries, where a table appears more than once in the corresponding
`FROM` clause. For this Diesel provides a `Diesel::alias!` macro that allows to define new alias for existing tables.

The following query demonstrates the support for this feature:

```rust
// Define new table alias for the existing `users` table
let users1 = diesel::alias!(schema::users as user1);

// Use the corresponding alias inside any existing query
users::table
    .inner_join(users1.on(users::id).eq(users1.field(users::id))))
    .select((users::id, users::name, users1.field(users::name)))
    .order_by(users1.field(users::id))
```

Again all of this is checked at compile time. So similar to a normal table, columns from aliases are only allowed to appear if
the corresponding query actually uses the alias.

### Implied selection via the new `Selectable` trait

Diesel 2.0 features a new `Selectable` trait and derive that lets users declare that a type expects a certain kind of select clause.
The major use case for this feature is to ensure that columns from a specific query are always requested in the right order
for a corresponding type implementing `Queryable`. This also works for complex queries involving joins or other kinds of nesting.

```rust
#[derive(Queryable, Selectable)]
struct User {
    id: i32,
    name: String,
}

let first_user = users.select(User::as_select()).first(connection)?;
```

Diesel enforces at type system level that once you provided such a select clause via `User::as_select()` you are only allowed
to construct this type from the returned result of the corresponding query. This means there is no need to specify the `User` type
twice in the query above.

### Support for `UNION`/`INTERSECT`/`EXCEPT` queries

Diesel 2.0 extents the query builder to support query combinations via `UNION`/`INTERSECT`/`EXCEPT`. This allows you
to easily chain multiple queries together as long as they return fields of the same type. Queries like the following
one are now supported:

```rust
 users.select(user_name.nullable())
    .union(animals.select(animal_name).filter(animal_name.is_not_null()))
```

As always this is checked at compile time to reject invalid queries, like for example that ones containing select
clauses with different fields.

## Timeline for Diesel 2.0

We consider this release candidate of Diesel 2.0 as feature complete.
Before finally releasing a stable 2.0 release we want to address the following points:

* Updating the guides on our web page to use the new Diesel 2.0 release
* Improve the migration guide to cover missed details or changes
* Improve our documentation to include more details on new features

You can help us rounding up this release by:

* Updating your code to the RC release and report problems [here](https://github.com/diesel-rs/diesel/discussions/3144)
* Help us improving the documentation by submitting reports and improvements
* Help us porting our guides to the new release by submitting a PR [here](https://github.com/sgrif/diesel.rs-website/tree/diesel_2.0_update)

## Thanks

As part of this release we would like to welcome @Ten0 as part of the
diesel core team.

Thank you to everyone who helped make this release happen through bug reports, and discussion on Gitter. While we don't have a way to collect stats on that form of contribution, it's greatly appreciated.

In addition to the Diesel core team, 134 people contributed code to this release. A huge thank you to:

* Alessandro Menezes
* Alexander 'z33ky' Hirsch
* Alexei Pastuchov
* Alice Ryhl
* Amila Welihinda
* Andre Braga Reis
* Andreas Runfalk
* Andrew Safigan
* Andrew Speed
* Andy Russell
* Artem Vorotnikov
* Arve Seljebu
* Billy Chan
* Blas Rodriguez Irizar
* Bryan Henry
* Callym
* Caroline Glassberg-Powell
* Cassie Jones
* Chenxi Yuan
* Chris Hanks
* Chris Maddox
* Chris West (Faux)
* Clouds Flowing
* Corentin Henry
* Daniel Buse
* Danilo Bargen
* David Teller
* David Tulig
* DebugSteven
* Diggory Blake
* Dmitriy Pleshevskiy
* Dusty Mabe
* EclipsedSolari
* Emile Fugulin
* Emm
* Emmanuel Surleau
* Erlend Langseth
* Felix Watts
* Filip Gospodinov
* Garrett Thornburg
* Giorgio Gambino
* Grégory Obanos
* Hal Gentz
* Han Xu
* Henk van der Laan
* Henry Boisdequin
* Hirokazu Hata
* Iban Eguia (Razican)
* Igor Raits
* Ivan Tham
* JR Heard
* Jeremy Stucki
* Jiří Sejkora
* Joel Parker Henderson
* John Brandt
* Jonas Platte
* Jonas Schievink
* Joshua Koudys
* Juhasz Sandor
* Justice4Joffrey
* Katharina Fey
* Kevin King
* Kevin Kirchner
* Khionu Sybiern
* Kitsu
* Koisell
* Kononnable
* Leonardo Yvens
* Lukas Markeffsky
* Maccesch
* Marc-Stefan Cassola
* Martell Malone
* Martijn Groeneveldt
* Matthew Kuo
* Matthieu Guillemot
* Mcat12
* Meven
* Mike Cronce
* Mr Ceperka
* Nafiul Islam
* Nathan Papapietro
* Nicholas Yang
* Oliver Cooper
* Otto Castle
* Pankaj Jangid
* Paolo Barbolini
* Paul Le Corre
* Paul Martensen
* Pavan Kumar Sunkara
* Paweł Przeniczny
* Philip Trauner
* Raphael Arias
* Roman
* Ryan Leckey
* Sarthak Singh
* Scott Driggers
* Sean Klein
* Simon Ertl
* Spencer Taylor
* Steven Chu
* Storm Timmermans
* Sébastien Santoro
* Takayuki Maeda
* Thomas Constantine Moore
* Thomas Eizinger
* Thomas Etter
* Tom MacWright
* Tuetuopay
* Urhengulas
* Vanio Begic
* WebeWizard
* William Myers
* Yin Jifeng
* Yuki Okushi
* Zane Duffield
* blackghost1987
* czotomo
* dchenk
* ejc Drobnič
* gorbit99
* hasezoey
* hi-rustin
* kevinpoitra
* kpcyrd
* matthew-dowdell
* ode79
* ropottnik
* telios
* theredfish
* zoewithabang
* Émile Fugulin
* κeen
* 二手掉包工程师
* 棒棒彬_Binboy

