---
title: "Configuring Diesel CLI"
lang: en-US
---

Diesel CLI is an optional tool Diesel provides to manage your
database schema. Its main two roles are to run database
migrations, and to create a Rust file which represents your
database schema.

The behavior of Diesel CLI can be configured through a toml file. By
default Diesel will look for `diesel.toml` in the same directory as
your `Cargo.toml` file. You can provide a different config file by
setting the `DIESEL_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable, or passing
`--config-file` on the command line. You can get a basic config file
with some defaults provided by running `diesel setup`.

As of Diesel 2.3, the file contains a single section,
`[print_schema]`. All fields in this file are optional.

## The `file` field

This field specifies the file where you want the Rust representation
of your schema to live. When this field is present, commands which
modify database schema (such as `diesel migration run`) will
automatically run `diesel print-schema`, and output its results to
this file.

This means that you can modify your database schema without having to
worry about running a separate command to update your Rust code. It is
highly recommended that you use this field, to ensure that the Rust
representation of your database schema is always in sync with what is
actually in your database. Typically this is set to `src/schema.rs`.

Unlike other fields, this doesn't actually modify the behavior of
`diesel print-schema`. `diesel print-schema` will always output your
schema to stdout, regardless of whether this field is present or not.

## The `with_docs` field

When this field is set to `true`, `diesel print-schema` will act as
though the `--with-docs` flag was passed by default. This places a doc
comment on all tables and columns. This comment contains either the
information provided by the database via `COMMENT ON` annotations
or is generated by diesel.


## The `filter` field

This field specifies which tables should be output by `diesel
print-schema`. It corresponds to the `--only-tables` and
`--except-tables` on the command line. Its value should be a map with
one of those two keys. For example:


```toml title="diesel.toml"
[print_schema]
# This will cause only the users and posts tables to be output
filter = { only_tables = ["users", "posts"] }

# This will cause all tables *except* the comments table to be
# output
filter = { except_tables = ["comments"] }
```


## The `schema` field

Specifies which schema to use when searching for tables. When set,
`diesel print-schema` will always behave as though `--schema` were
passed. This field only affects PostgreSQL. If no value is provided,
the `public` schema will be searched.

## The `generate_missing_sql_type_definitions` field

This field accepts a boolean value, that configures whether `diesel print-schema`
should generate definitions for missing sql types as part of the `schema.rs` file.
The generated sql type definitions are placed in a separate `sql_types` module inside
of the generated `schema.rs` file. This will generate only definitions for sql types actually
used by any of the `table!` definitions generated by `diesel print-schema`. Those definitions
automatically use the auto-generated sql type definition.

If this field is not present, or set to `true`
`diesel print-schema` will generate the corresponding definitions. This configuration
only generates custom sql type definition for PostgreSQL based database systems, as
SQLite and MySQL are using a fixed set of sql types.

See the `exclude_custom_type_definitions` field for skipping the generation of certain custom types.


```toml title="diesel.toml"
[print_schema]
# skip generating missing sql type definitions
generate_missing_sql_type_definitions = false
```


## The `custom_type_derives` field

This field adds `#[derive(...)]` items to the sql type definitions
automatically generated as a result of the
`generate_missing_sql_type_definitions` field.
When set, `diesel print-schema` will behave as if `--custom-type-derives`
were passed. The `diesel::sql_types::SqlType` trait will be automatically
derived if this flag is either empty, or doesn't already contain the trait.


```toml title="diesel.toml"
[print_schema]
generate_missing_sql_type_definitions = true
# Derive `SqlType` and `Debug` for the automatically generated sql type definitions
custom_type_derives = ["diesel::sql_types::SqlType", "std::fmt::Debug"]
```


## The `except_custom_type_definitions` field

This field allows to define a list of regexes matched against custom type names for which diesel-cli should not generate sql type definitions. You should use this option in combination with `import_types` if you use crates like `postgis-diesel` or `pgvector` that provide their own sql type definition for specific custom types. If not set this defaults to an empty list.


```toml title="diesel.toml"
[print_schema]
generate_missing_sql_type_definitions = true
# excludes any type named `Vector` from the generated `sql_types` module
except_custom_type_definitions = ["Vector"]
```

## The `import_types` field

This field adds `use` statements to the top of every `table!`
declaration. When set, `diesel print-schema` will behave as if
`--import-types` were passed. When no value is given, only types from
`diesel::sql_types` will be imported.


```toml title="diesel.toml"
[print_schema]
# Add types from `diesel_full_text_search` like `tsvector`
import_types = ["diesel::sql_types::*", "diesel_full_text_search::types::*"]
```

## The `patch_file` field

Specifies a `.patch` file to be applied to your schema after it is
generated. Corresponds to the `--patch-file` option on the command
line.

We can't provide an option for every possible customization to this
file that you might want to make. This serves as a general purpose
catch-all for schema customizations.

The file should be a unified diff, which you can generate with `diff`
or `git diff`. It's highly recommended that you provide more than 3
context lines, especially if you have set `import_types`.

You can easily generate this file by making the changes you want to
`schema.rs`, and then running `git diff -U6 > src/schema.patch`.


## The `sqlite_integer_primary_key_is_bigint` field

This field allows you to configure diesel-cli to thread `INTEGER PRIMARY KEY` fields as `BIGINT` for sqlite databases. If not set this defaults to false.

```toml title="diesel.toml"
[print_schema]
sqlite_integer_primary_key_is_bigint = true
```

## The `allow_tables_to_appear_in_same_query_config` field

This field allows you to configure diesel-cli to generate an `allow_tables_to_appear_in_same_query!` call for all 
tables in your schema or only for those that can reasonably be joined via existing foreign key references. 
Only tables appearing in this macro call can be joined by diesel. Possible options are:

* `fk_related_tables` only generate `allow_tables_to_appear_in_same_query!` calls for tables that can be joined via foreign key relations
* `all_tables` list all tables in a single `allow_tables_to_appear_in_same_query!` call (default if not set)
* `none` do not generate a `allow_tables_to_appear_in_same_query!` call at all

 
```toml title="diesel.toml"
[print_schema]
allow_tables_to_appear_in_same_query_config = "fk_related_tables"
```


## The `column_sorting` field

This field allows you to configure how diesel-cli orders column names in your `table!` declarations. It allows the following options:

* `ordinal_position` to sort by the ordinal position given by the database. Note that this might be an unstable sorting depending on your migration order. This is the default value if this field is not set.
* `name` to sort by the actual field name.


```toml title="diesel.toml"
[print_schema]
column_sorting = "name"
```

## The `pg_domains_as_custom_types` field

This field allows you to define a list of PostgreSQL domain type names that should be infered as custom SQL types by diesel-cli. This list can contain regular expressions to match on multiple domain types at once.

 
```toml title="diesel.toml"
[print_schema]
pg_domains_as_custom_types = ["int", "longtext"]
```

## Nested sub schemas

Diesel-CLI allows to configure nested subschemas via `[print_schema.your_sub_schema]` entries. This allows to split up large `schema.rs` files into smaller ones or generate schema.rs files for multiple database schemas at once. Each subschema can configure all keys described above. Diesel-cli allows to configure the subschema that should be used via the `--schema-key` command line argument. If no such argument is given it default to the top level `[print_schema]` entry.



```toml title="diesel.toml"
# defines a subschema `user1` including the `user1` table
[print_schema.user1]
file = "src/schema1.rs"
with_docs = true
filter = { only_tables = ["users1"] }


# defines a subschema `user2` including the `user2` table
[print_schema.user2]
file = "src/schema2.rs"
with_docs = true
filter = { only_tables = ["users2"] }
```
